It's time for a new section of this
course, called Objects and Functions.
In a lot of JavaScript courses,
they treat these two concepts as
two different subjects to teach.
I think that's a big mistake.
Because while in other programming
languages, objects and
languages are two distinct things
to talk about, in JavaScript,
they're very, very much related.
They're really, in many ways,
the same subject.
So let's talk about objects and functions.
The first subject or the first topic
we'll discuss is objects and the dot.
Remember we've already said that objects
are collections of name value pairs
and those values can then be other
collections of name value pairs.
But for our purposes now,
let's look at objects from a little
bit of a different perspective.
Let's think about how an object lives or
resides in your computer's memory.
An object like we said is a collection
of values that are given names.
But, what values are we talking about?
Well, an object can have properties and
methods.
So an object can have a primitive
sitting off of it, and
that would be called a property.
Remember those primitive types
that we talked about, so
any one of those like a Boolean or
a number or a string.
An object could have another object
connected to it as a child, so to speak.
And this is also considered a property.
Remember we said the value could be
another name value pair collection, or
that is, another object.
An object can also contain functions and
in those cases the function is called
a method when it's sitting on the object.
So it's still a function but
it's connected to an object.
So it's called a method.
So objects have properties and methods.
And these sit in memory so
the kind of core object will have some
sort of address in your computer's memory.
And it will have references to
these different properties and
methods which are also sitting
in your computer's memory.
Now they may be related to the address of
that base object concept, or they may not.
But either way the object has references
to the addresses or the space or
the spots where these different
properties and methods live.
And those addresses might
look something like that.
So, this may seem a bit obscure.
But it's important for things that
we're going to talk about later
that you think about an object as
sitting in memory, and then having
references to other things sitting
in memory that are connected to it.
So it knows where its different
properties and methods are, that is,
primitives, objects, and
function that make it up.
All right, so let's look at in JavaScript
how we access those slots in memory,
those properties and
functions of an object.
So I have and empty app.js file and
I'm going to create our first object,
var person.
And I'm going to use the syntax equals and
instead of a primitive
like a string or a number,
I'm going to say new Object.
Now, let me be clear.
There are better ways to do this,
and we'll cover them shortly.
But just for this moment,
I am going to use the new Object
syntax to create a new Object because
it's very obvious what's going on.
So I'm creating a new Object.
And this is going to sit in memory.
Now I'm going to add properties and
methods.
So, for example, I can say person, and
then I'm going to use what's called
the computed member access operator.
That's right, an operator.
An operator is this.
Brackets.
And inside those brackets I put the name
of the value that I'm
trying to locate in memory.
So let's say firstname.
It doesn't exist yet, so
when I use the = Tony,
it's going to create that spot in memory,
and give it that name.
And this object will get a reference to
the address of that location in memory.
So, it will know where
firstname is in memory and
that's going to be a primitive, a string.
So, it's called a property,
the firstname property.
So, this is one way to set and
access properties.
If I go back to my PDF of JavaScript
operator precedence, you'll see that
we have Computed Member Access.
It's very near the top.
And it's left-to-right associativity,
and it's brackets there.
So this is an operator.
What the operator does is it
takes this Object and this
property or method name, and
it looks for this on this Object.
It actually can do quite
a bit more than that, but
we'll see that much later in the course.
But, for starters this is one way,
using a string to access this.
So let me set lastname.
Now the neat thing about this operator
is that I could set a string, let's
say firstname, and
I can then use that string to access
that property using that bracket
notation or that operator.
So let me first of all just log
the person itself so you can see it.
And then I'll log person.
I'll use this bracket operator and
I'll pass this string,
this variable that contains the string.
And remember this operator will
take this object and look for
a property with this name.
So this name is firstname so it should
find it, and what should it output?
Tony.
So let's go ahead and
run this in the browser.
And then I'll open my console,
and there I see Tony.
So the Computed Member Access operator,
those brackets worked.
They looked at the Object as one parameter
and that string as one parameter and
went out and found that property on
that Object and gave me the value.
Notice I also just outputted
the object itself.
And I can see those two properties,
firstname and lastname.
There's another property, this underscore,
underscore, proto, underscore, underscore.
Don't worry about that right now.
But we are gonna get into
that later in the course.
For now, we'll just focus on these that
I've named, firstname and lastname.
And I've outputted it the first name using
that special operator with the brackets.
So, let's go back to our code and
let's talk about another operator,
the more common operator and clearer and
easier to type operator for
accessing properties and methods.
Now this approach here
that we just talked about,
you will see sometimes in frameworks and
libraries because you can dynamically
decide what property you're trying to get.
You can base it off a string.
But it's much clearer and
easier to type the next one.
All right, I'm going console.log
the first name again.
But I'm going to use a different operator,
the dot operator.
And it is just what it sounds like.
Dot, then I can say, first name.
The dot, is an operator, it's a function.
And when used after an Object like that,
well,
if I go back to my
JavaScriptOperatorPrecedence.pdf,
you'll see it's just second from the top,
right after the parentheses for grouping.
It's left to right and it's just a dot and
it takes two parameters,
the object that you're looking at and
the name of the property.
Notice I don't have to put
this in quotes or something.
Although that's essentially
what it's doing.
It's taking the object and
passing the string
that represents the name of
the value that you are looking for.
But I don't have to do that,
that's not a really accurate.
You can't do that.
It will simply, the syntax parser will
understand that after you put the dot,
what you've actually typed will be
the string that's given to the dot.
That's just a lot faster to type.
Person.firstname, and if I run this since
I'm already outputting the person and
firstname again,
I'll just get the firstname again.
So I refresh and there it is.
You see that?
So the dot operator acted exactly
the same as the brackets operator here.
This is Computed Member Access.
And this is just called Member Access,
the Member Access operator, members
being members of the Object, right?
Your fingers and
your toes are members of your body.
So these are looking for members of
the Object, the pieces, the methods, and
the properties.
So this went out and found this
property because it's just a string.
It's not called a method.
It's called a property.
Okay, so
I could console.log person.lastname.
Very readable, very easy to type.
And that's what's really happening.
It went out and
found that memory location,
that reference by name that's
connected to that Object.
And I could have set this
value as well the same way.
In fact remember that the other
type of property you can have,
as opposed to a primitive,
is also another Object.
So i can attach another set of names and
values.
Let's says that person.address.
I'm gonna make that instead of a string or
a number or
a Boolean,
I'll just make it another new Object.
So it's an Object sitting
inside an Object and
then I can use the dot operator for
example and add properties
to my sub-object,
my child object, inside of here.
Now remember these are operators, so
how do we know which one gets run first?
Well, we go back and
we see that the associativity of
the Member Access operator
is left-to-right.
It has left associativity, meaning that
the left most dot will get run first, get
called first, because they're functions,
and then moving on to the right.
So this one between person and
address gets called first.
So it says, okay,
I'll look at the person Object and
look for a property or
a method that has that name.
And then it finds that in memory.
And this second dot operator is called and
it says, okay, on that Object that I just
found in memory, I'll look for a property
or a method on that, called street.
Now in this case it won't find it but
I'm setting a value so
it will create it and
give it that initial value.
And I could just keep doing this.
So I might have address.city.
Let's say New York.
And state, let's say New York.
And you could see I could make this other
subobject and subobjects and subobjects.
And I could just keep going because
it's a left to right dot operator,
left associative.
And the Objects can keep containing
Objects which can contain other Objects
which can contain other Objects.
So, this is very powerful.
Realize that the Objects themselves and
their properties and
methods are all just sitting in memory.
These dots, these brackets, passing
strings to them, they're just functions.
They're just operators,
a way to access that information.
So now I have this Object
sitting in memory.
I could do a person.address.street and
output that and
it'll go find it in memory running
those two different operators.
I could go person.address.city and
it will find that.
And I could on the same object
just use a different operator.
So I could go address using the computed,
this is also left to right.
If I look, it's left to right, so
I can also then just do another one.
Let's say, state.
This is essentially doing the same thing.
It looks at the object,
finds a property or
method called that,
runs this operator first.
Then the second operator, it'll look for
a state property on that.
And the dot is doing the same thing.
And they're both simply accessing the same
memory locations via the same names.
So they're just two different functions
that are essentially doing the same thing.
And I'll refresh, and
there I'm outputting my values,
that are sitting in memory,
using both operators.
So again, Objects are name
value pairs sitting in memory.
They can contain other name value pairs,
that is, other Objects.
They can contain other properties,
strings, Booleans.
They can contain numbers.
They can also contain functions,
which are called methods.
But we're not going to
quite get there yet,
because there's a couple other
things we need to understand.
But good enough for here.
Remember that this is not the preferred
way to create a new Object.
We'll get to that in just a second.
And also remember that
although we can use the dot or
we can use the computed, the bracket
notation here for finding properties and
methods, the preferred approach
is just using the dot operator.
It's very clean, it's very clear, and it's
also easier to debug and find problems.
So I always recommend that you use the dot
operator unless you really need to
access a property or properties
using some kind of dynamic string.
Some kind of string that can be changed,
that you can look at programmatically.
But to start with,
always use the dot operator.
That's Objects and the dot.